So I hope you had fun with that particular
exercise building your own inside page
based on some of the materials
that I gave you.
I'm gonna talk through my particular
answer using the mosaic style layout and
then we had that one grid cell
that had the text inside of it So
let's take a quick peek into
how I put that page together.
In the HTML what I've done is recycled
the headers that I had from the previous
layout, of the website and
all of the CSS that went along with that.
So that is the header and I kept down here
the footer of the webpage as well which we
coded in the flexbox
portion of the course.
These two particular layouts,
the header and
the footer work really well in flexbox.
I didn't really feel the need to
recode those inside of grids, so
I just left them alone.
The concept of a series of rows
stacked on top of each other,
worked with this particular
design of the website.
So I kept that concept as well.
And so that meant that here inside of
the content portion of this web page,
I've set it up in the following way.
So I have a section,
I give it an ID of donut.
Here is the title of that section
Sharon McCutchin, donut love.
And then we have a series of images inside
of an unordered list as you would expect.
So here's my unordered list.
I have a list item,
I've given them a class of d1 to d5,
as in donut one to donut number five.
And we have images here with
the images themselves and
then the description
that goes with them and
the descriptions are all the same,
they're just donuts with sprinkles.
Inside of number three,
I added a div with a class of author,
it's an h3 for that particular heading
along with that particular text.
And the links and so
forth are all inside of it.
That div with a class
of author once again as
always managing our parents and
children here.
We have that div and
we have then after it the image.
So that means that within this li we
can use grid to orient the text and
the image on top of each other.
And then they can separate
at smaller screen sizes.
So that's the technique that I use
here with the overlapping grid cells.
All the rest of them are pretty
much the same the li
with the the donut image inside of it.
Now let's look at the CSS.
And so here in the CSS, outside all
the media queries, we have the following.
So, I have a donut image, I set that
to it's hack, a width of a 100%.
The ul winds up being my grid parent or
the grid container.
And the li's wind up being my grid items.
So here outside of the media queries
all I've said is display as grid with
a one REM gap and one single column of
one fraction wide, that's all I did here.
And specifically for d3,
I set it on its own row.
So make sure it displays on the first
row of that particular cell.
Then as we go into the media queries
Down around line 476 in the CSS,
this is where all of that starts.
So here, for the donut ul,
I've set up my two columns with
a minimum of 100 pixels and
a maximum of one fraction.
Because I want my donuts
to be big enough and
then I've spelled out exactly where I
want each one of those images to display.
So I'm not anticipating
an unknown number of images.
This is an art site, I have five images,
those are the five that
we're gonna display.
And I've set them up to display
in a lovely sort of way.
So the interesting part of all
of this winds up being d3,
which is as I told you is possible before,
both a grid item and a grid container.
So, the first two, the grid column and
the grid row, make it a grid item.
And that's indicating where it's
gonna display in the grid pattern.
And then inside of d3,
we also have its own grid where we
have one column and
one row as I have showed you before.
So the d3 image and
the author will both occupy that
same single row in the single
column that I had set up.
Then I give my image and opacity of 0.2
such that my text becomes readable and
the image just sort of whites out
a little bit there in the background.
And then make sure that
the author text shows up on top.
Give it a little bit of padding,
give it a z-index so
it shows up on top of the image and
not behind it.
That's really important.
When you take a look at this because
of the opacity, without the z-index,
let me show you what happens.
If we just did that much there, let me
show you this in the default browser.
So this is coded up
with a couple of links.
But notice that because of
the opacity of the image,
it looks like you can read this
text just fine, it's no big deal.
But the links are unclickable unless
you add that bit of CSS there.
So if we put in that z-index and
then refresh our webpage,
now those become clickable links.
So, even if it looks right,
make sure you test it,
make sure you can mouse over those links.
Make sure that they
are actually clickable.
Otherwise you need to adjust your z-index